Is the destiny of mankind controlled by some transcendental entity or law?
Is it like the hand of God hovering above?
At least it is true...
...that man has no control, even over his own will.
I don't want to live like this, buried in his dream...
You and Griffith...
I hope it works out between you and Griffith.
Hey.
Judeau, Corkus...
Come on, we need to talk.
Griffith!
He would be able to stop him!
Feel no shame about shape.
Weather changes their phrase.
Even mother will show you another way.
So put your glasses on.
Nothing will be wrong.
There's no blame. There's no fame.
It's up to you.
The first words should be found.
Whatever holds you back.
I... ...can... I can get it off.
Tell me what... Tell me what... Tell me what you want.
I don't know why... Don't know why...
Don't know why you're afraid.
Tell me what... Tell me what... Tell me what you'd say.
I don't know why... Don't know why... Too late...
It's too late.
Separation
What is this all of a sudden?
Sweetheart... It's not sudden.
Come here, girl!
I've been thinking about this since before we set off for our last battle.
Hey darling, when do you...
Are you discontent about something?
Of course I'm not... ...get off work?
Not at all.
But... Why don't you spend...
During these past three years...
...some time with me later?
...I've really enjoyed myself.
It's been like one great party.
I don't know... How could I be discontent?
Oh, I didn't ask your name yet... Then why do you...
Corkus, come on.
Shut up!
I am Sir Corkus, commander of one of our companies!
What's wrong with me going to a bar and hitting on a girl or two?
We've got free rein in any pub in Windham...
...once they recognize us as Band of the Hawk commanders!
In the street, we're mobbed by kids and women as we walk by!
Of course!
We are the heroes who saved this kingdom!
Soon, we'll be admitted into society as nobles!
We'll be able to settle down in the court!
With luck, we could become lords of our own castles!
All of this would be impossible under ordinary circumstances!
Right?
But we finally got our hands on it!
And it took a lot of blood, sweat, and tears too!
And now you say you're ready to throw it all away...
In any case...
Since killing people is your only talent...
...dancing at parties with the ladies is probably beyond you!
What you say is true.
I can't do anything but wield a sword.
The first time I killed a man, I was just a kid without a clue in the world.
I've never known anything but the battlefield.
I never tried to know more.
Killing others to survive... That's all I've ever done.
But...
I could have been content living that way...
If just one person...
Never mind who...
If only someone had ever cared about me...
But...
After wandering from one battlefield to another, it finally hit me...
When it's kill or be killed, it doesn't mean shit if someone cares or not.
Yearning for that is just childish.
Even so...
I ended up meeting him...
The one person I desperately wanted to notice me.
He had nothing whatsoever in his possession.
And he was driven to obtain everything.
But because he aspires to such great heights...
...his skills always have to be honed to perfection.
And so he can't afford to surround himself with the weak.
But the funny thing is the more I see him in that light...
...the more dazzling he seems to me.
I've had enough of it. Being part of his dream, always looking up at him.
I want to achieve a goal of my own, so that I can call myself his equal.
He's the one man I can't have looking down on me.
Call yourself Griffith's equal, huh?
Cut the crap!
That's what you call childish bullshit!
He's special, don't you see?
He's not like the rest of us!
You have no talent but slaying people...
Yet here you are, way out of your class, as our raider commander...
And you have no one to thank for that but Griffith!
I have no interest in rank or position.
It's something else that I'm after...
Something I have to claim with my own hands.
That's what I mean by childish drivel!
Something you have to claim with your own hands?
Life would be a lot easier if we could all find such a thing!
Listen!
We all have to make compromises in life, depending on our limitations...
...and the cards that we're dealt in this world!
People who think that all they need is a dream...
You guys make me sick!
That's nothing but an excuse for cowards who can't face reality!
Corkus...
What about you?
Isn't there something you want to claim too?
Gimme a break!
I need to get some sleep!
I can't tolerate this immature fool any longer!
That Corkus... He may not look it, but he was once a band of thieves' leader.
I suppose at one point, he did have something that he wanted to claim...
...with his own hands, like you.
As for myself...
I've always been proficient at anything I set my mind to.
My quick wit and skills with a knife have always been superior to most.
But I could never be the best at any one thing.
That's why I decided... If I couldn't be the best...
...then I would serve under someone who could.
I think everyone has the desire to attain something...
I'll see you out...
I hope you find it... That something you're after...
Hey, Guts... Yeah?
Why don't you ask Casca to go with you?
What?
What are you talking about?
As if it wasn't obvious enough already. Griffith's the one she...
I don't think Casca can ever be with Griffith.
Why?
Because there's only one thing that Griffith is after...
And winning Princess Charlotte's hand is the fastest shortcut to it.
And it's the only way he can ever hope to.
Anyway, what do you think of Casca?
Sure, I think Casca's attractive.
There aren't a lot of women you can trust your back to on the battlefield.
But I don't really see Casca as a woman...
She's more like my comrade-in-arms.
Well, then...
No...
...you're wrong.
She only has eyes for Griffith.
So for now, I can't be the one for her.
I see.
I guess I was the only one who thought there was some hope for you.
Thanks for coming along. I'll be off now...
Guts!
You...
You're so mean. How could you leave without saying anything?
Why? Are you tired of the Band of the Hawk?
Rickert...
Are you leaving?
Yeah...
Are you resigning from the Band of the Hawk?
Sorry...
You're sorry? That doesn't explain anything!
You've got to tell us why!
The Band of the Hawk is like your own family! Isn't that true?
Stop it, Rickert.
Why... It's a man's decision.
We should just let him go.
But Guts is the commander of the Raiders!
He's crucial to the Band of the Hawk!
We were already invincible before he joined.
But... Shut up!
Hey, I'm going to tell you this now!
I've always hated you!
I'll never acknowledge your skills!
You're not special at all!
And you'll never be like Griffith!
If we ever meet on the battlefield someday...
...you'd better watch your back!
Guts...
Thanks for everything...
I told you this long ago...
You belong to me.
I claimed you with this sword of mine.
When to go into battle, when to die... that is all up to me.
If you want to free yourself from my control...
...then just as you did before...
Wrest yourself away with your blade!
Griffith!
You can't just let me go with a smile and "goodbye," huh?
I see.
Wait!
Are you two serious?
You're going to cross swords even though you're comrades?
Stay back, Casca!
Get out of the way.
What are you saying?
If you two fight with real swords, you won't escape unharmed!
Hands off! What are you doing?
There's no way around it, under these circumstances...
What are you all doing?
We've got to stop them! They'll kill each other!
This is between the two of them.
It's not our place to interfere.
But we can't just...
Have you gotten so used to the genteel life that you've forgotten?
We must settle things by our swords.
This is our way as mercenaries, isn't it?
But...
She's changed...
She's never hesitated before under Griffith's orders...
...even if her comrades were in mortal danger.
Does she realize it herself? That she's starting to change?
His eyes look as if he's glaring at an enemy.
But...
...even if he hates me or if he considers me a traitor...
I'm still going!
It's just as it was three years ago...
It all began with a sword fight... and it will end with a sword fight.
I'm proud that I've come this far...
The fact you're challenging me now shows I'm valuable enough...
...for you to shed blood for.
He's become immeasurably strong...
But...
Griffith can definitely stop him!
That's right. Then everything will be the same as it was before...
Is that my wish?
Is it my wish that...
...Guts stays with me?
He makes no attempt to display his will to fight.
However, he is completely on guard...
...and his eyes are resolute.
Do you really wish so much...
...to be free of my control?
No, I won't allow it!
My best chance is in the first strike...
I've got to deflect his sword as soon as he swings downward.
Then I'll strike his shoulder!
If my sword strays the least bit off the mark, I could end up killing him.
Nevertheless, if I can't make him mine...
I don't care!
Now!
Griffith!
Goodbye.
Griffith...
Guts!
Guts is gone. He didn't even look back.
That was a fluke!
That was definitely a fluke!
I'll never admit that he won!
You're going to be all right...
It's like you just stumbled over a stone in the street.
It's not a big deal at all...
The place you're headed... It's far beyond this, right?
You'll be fine... You'll get back on your feet...
...and start walking again... before you know it.
No, the snow is melting...
Please go to bed quickly, otherwise you will get sick, my lady.
Fine, I shall retire now.
You may leave now.
Then good night, my lady.
Sir Griffith!
Sir Griffith, what happened to you?
It's such a rainy night!
Good evening, Princess Charlotte.
May I be so bold as to request entry into your chambers?
What?
If someone saw us like this, it might stain your honor, Princess.
Y-Yes...
Come in... Thank you.
Please excuse my rudeness, visiting a lady's bedroom...
...at such a late hour and soaking the place with rain.
I missed you so much.
Ever since you were sent to the battlefield...
...I have constantly been afraid that I would hear of your death.
Even after you returned, so many terrifying and tragic things occurred!
Why... Why didn't you come to see me earlier?
No...
Griffith...
Griffith!
Are you scared?
Stop it...
Your fear and sorrow... Throw everything into the fire and let it burn...
Goodbye...
Griffith?
Well, well, who should it be but the next White Hawk general!
To think that Your Excellency, of all people, should be here at this time.
That's right. My sword was...
I will hear your story later, at my leisure.
Haul him off!
Looking back, the morning comes.
Don't find your face in your glass.
Take the moonlight by the tail.
It's a rainy sight. You're shading.
What is that?
It's just the same.
What is trying your crown?
I'm spending my glass, walking back.
So wear my glass. You're fading.
I'm waiting so long.
I'm waiting...
Next Episode
A departed friend... A place that's been cast away...
Emotions thought to be abandoned...
Summoned back by the power of God's will.
Even as man feels joy, he is chained by an afflicting misery.
Why must such times of bliss pass in the blink of an eye?
Sparks